# API_RestAssured

RestAssured API Testing Automation Framework
This project has a RestAssured based API testing framework. Underlying, it uses RestAssured -API testing library, TestNG - Third-party free library for Running tests, and for Reporting, Extent Reports (library for interactive and detailed reports for tests). This framework can be used for any Restful application to create API tests.

Framework Details

Framework - What and Why?
For any software requirement, certain common and basic tasks need to be performed. Such tasks would have been already solved and would be available as open-source/free projects. One can use that and build their code on top of it to solve the software requirements specific to them. Such base code is called a framework

## Installation


```bash
  mvn clean Install
```


## Langauges & Frameworks

The Project uses the following Libraries.

    1. Java 11 as Programming Langauge.
    2. TestNG as Testing Framework.
    3. RestAssured as HTTP Client.
    4. ExtentReport as testReporting Strategy.
    5. Intellij IDEA as IDE.
    6. Jakson as JSON Parser.
    7. OpenCSV as Csv Parser.
    8. Log4J for logging.
    9. Maven as Build tool.

## Running Tests

To run tests, run the following command

```bash
  mvn clean test
```
## Using Environments

```bash
  mvn test -Denv=qa
```

Project structure
This project uses a standard Maven Java project with standard java folder structure and POM.xml

Packages
Main Package
src/main/java/ is the core package of Framework and it has various sub-packages dedicatedly for various API testing functionalities.

Test Package
src/test/java/ is the actual test package and holds all test classes (TestNG) related to Airlines API's.

## Folder Structure

**src/test/java/restUtils/**: This is main package for our framework, you found all the listener and utils.Here we have listener classes that implements ITestListener and RetryAnalyzer

**src/test/java/restUtils/utils**: Here we have DateUtils,ExcelUtils and JsonUtils here we are using this to read endpoints, payloads from .json files

**src/test/java/airlines/pojo**: In this package we have all the pojo  classes.

**src/test/java/airlines/resources**: we store all dependent files for our testcases like Excel files and text files and CSV files and json files.

**src/test/java/tests**: Here we write all the test cases in this project.

**src/suites**: Here you can find all the suite files for different scenarios.

**reports**: Here framework will produce ExtentReports after every execution with date and timestamp.


## Reporting
----------------------------------------------------
With the Extent library, we can create interactive and detailed reports for our API test results. We can add events, tags, devices, authors or any other relevant information we decide is essential to create an informative and stunning report. Test Reports can be found in workingDir/reports/TestReport.html


we are also parsing a CSV file to print testcases names and status and some other parameters.

## Documentation

[RestAssured](https://rest-assured.io/) visit here for official RestAssured Documentation.

[TestNG](https://testng.org/doc/documentation-main.html) TestNG Documentation.

<!-- QENTRIX_REST_ASSURED_AGENT_START -->
## Qentrix RestAssured Agent

This repository contains TestNG RestAssured API tests generated by Qentrix.

- Organization: `Frontend Quality Engineering`
- Project: `Qentrix`
- Framework: RestAssured with TestNG
- Java package for generated tests: `tests.frontend_quality_engineering.qentrix`
- Generated config: `src/test/resources/frontend_quality_engineering/qentrix/config.properties`
- Generated test data: `src/test/resources/frontend_quality_engineering/qentrix/testdata/`
- Run command: `mvn clean test`
- TestNG suite: `testng.xml`
- Reports: `reports/TestReport.html` and Maven Surefire reports under `target/`

API base URL currently generated into config: `http://user`

The existing Qentrix framework was detected, so only generated files and managed suite entries were updated.
<!-- QENTRIX_REST_ASSURED_AGENT_END -->


